CSS-and-styling-structure - Revised with text content (#21)
pupilfirst/web-development-101-script: basic-introduction-html-css/css-and-styling-structure/README.md

# Text
In the past few lessons, you've learned what HTML is and how it is used to mark up documents.
But those documents looked very basic in web browsers, isn't it? Headings looks larger than regular text, paragraphs break onto a new line and have space between them. Links are colored and underlined to distinguish them from the rest of the text.

The web would be a boring place if all websites looked like that. Using CSS, you can control exactly how HTML elements will look in the browser. Let's know more about it.

# Script

In this lesson, we will learn about what CSS is and how we can use it in our webpages.

### What is CSS?

> While HTML is used to define the structure and semantics of your content, CSS or Cascading stylesheets allows you to create great-looking web pages. You can use CSS to change the font, color, size, and spacing of your content. You can also split it into multiple columns, or add animations and other decorative features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While HTML is used to define the structure and semantics of your content, CSS or Cascading Style Sheets allows you to create great-looking web pages. You can use CSS to change the font, color, size, and spacing of your content. You can also split it into multiple columns, or add animations and other decorative features.
```

So, it's not a recommended approach. And that leads to the third approach, external stylesheets.

##### External stylesheet

An external stylesheet contains CSS in a separate file with a .css extension. This is the most common and useful method of bringing CSS to a document.

> Action: Open VS Code and create style.css file
````
  h1 {
    color: purple;
    background: yellow;
  }
  p {
    color: grey;
  }
````
> Action: Link the CSS in HTML
````
  <html>
    <head>
      <title>My CSS</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Hello World!</h1>
      <p>Trying CSS for first time</p>
    </body>
  </html>
````

The href attribute of the <link> element needs to reference a file on your file system. In the example above, the CSS file is in the same folder as the HTML document, but you could place it somewhere else and adjust the path. 

The advantage of this approach is, you can define all of your styling rules in a single CSS file, and link it to multiple webpages. This will keep your web interface consistent, and you will save a lot of time.

> So, this is the recommended approach or writing CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, this is the recommended approach for writing CSS.
```

Author: Fixed.

### To summarize,

> CSS or Cascading stylesheets are used to style the webpages, and we've learned that there are three different way to add CSS to an HTML file, and the external stylesheet is the recommended approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CSS or Cascading Style Sheets are used to style the webpages, and we've learned that there are three different way to add CSS to an HTML file, and the external style sheet is the recommended approach.
```

Author: Resolved
